# 12610240 - Positions enabling transcendence

## Template

In any domain there are points which provide a focus for the relationships between other points. Such a focal point or "centre of gravity" serves an integrative function through which the domain may both itself be integrated as well as being related as a whole to frameworks which transcend the boundary of the domain.

## Physical

In every region, town or locality, there are special places which become symbols embodying the unique characteristics of the area. Unless such sacred sites are protected, whether they are natural or man-made, people cannot maintain their spiritual roots or their sense of historical and cultural identity within a more global framework.

## Social

In every society, organization complex or local group, there are regularly occurring special occasions transcending day-to-day preoccupations. These become symbols embodying, through some form of ritual, the unique characteristics of the community in question. Unless such occasions are protected, whether they are traditional, religious or improvised, people cannot maintain their spiritual roots and their sense of historical and cultural identity within a more global community.

## Conceptual

In any conceptual domain there are key, focal, or self-reflective concepts which serve an integrative function whereby the domain may both itself be integrated as well as being related as a whole to more fundamental or meta-frameworks transcending the boundary of the domain. Unless such focal concepts are protected, it becomes difficult to maintain both the cohesion of the domain and its relevance within any larger conceptual framework.

## Psychic

Within any mode of awareness there are fundamental or self-reflective insights through which the perceptions in that mode are both integrated and related as a whole to some larger, more fundamental, or transcendent mode of awareness. Unless such key insights are protected, it becomes difficult for the individual to maintain both the coherence of that mode and an understanding of its function within the personality as a whole.

## Broader Patterns

- [Sub-domain boundary](12610130)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Relationship to indeterminacy](12610250)
- [Low-intensity communication pathways](12610590)
- [Context for transformative experience](12610660)
- [Access to patterns of active irrationality](12610640)
- [Multi-faceted frameworks](12612390)
- [Displaceable frameworks](12612360)
- [Coherent pattern of relationship densities](12610280)
- [Limiting exposure to harmonious perspectives](12611340)
- [Sites for grounding perspectives in non-linearity](12611760)
- [Appropriate relationship of non-linearity to structures](12611710)
