# 12612490 - Symbols of integration

## Template

Symbols of integration may be used to emphasize the boundaries of a space. At significant transitions between parts of the space, when the connectivity between patterns is weak, they are a means of binding them together to emphasize the larger whole. They function mainly by creating surfaces in which each part is simultaneously figure and boundary and in which the design acts a boundary and figure at several different levels simultaneously.

## Physical

Use of ornamental designs as decoration on buildings where materials meet as a means of providing a seam to knit together such edges to emphasize the space as a whole rather than its constituent parts. Ornamentation is frivolous when there is in fact no lack of connectivity.

## Social

Use of logos, banners, totems, rituals, mottoes, or other devices to reinforce recognition of the group as a whole, particularly in contexts in which it is liable to split into factions.

## Conceptual

Use of symbols whose structure or profound significance is congruent with the organization of the conceptual space and therefore serves to bind together the different aspects or dimensions of it.

## Psychic

Reflection on symbols which are felt to be keys to the integration of the psyche and the sense of identity. These may emerge from the unconscious in the form of dreams or in certain forms of artistic creation (e.g. sand printing).

## Broader Patterns

- [Time binding](12612480)
- [Inter-level zone](12612260)
- [Flexible interfaces](12612440)
- [Grounded structures](12611680)
- [Ambiguous boundaries](12612430)
- [Inter-level integrity](12612270)
- [Zoning internal domains](12612330)
- [Tolerance at level interfaces](12612400)
- [Distortion resistant boundaries](12612180)
- [Unalienating internal boundaries](12612350)
- [Unalienating internal boundaries](12612350)
- [Partially enclosed internal domains](12611930)
- [Eccentric access to perspective contexts](12611960)
- [Emphasizing transitions across boundaries](12612240)
- [Symbolic connection to encompassing domains](12612320)
- [Occupiable sites exposed to external insight](12611800)
- [Maintainable, multi-element external boundaries](12612340)
- [Distinctiveness of main entry point to structure](12611100)
- [Protecting non-linear contexts from communication pathways](12611730)
- [Hospitable interface between structures and external environment](12611600)
- [Appropriate configuration for interaction of complementary perspectives](12611870)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Encouraging emphases](12612500)
- [Meaningful symbols of self-transformation](12612530)
